## Specification
**Language:** Go

### Query API
A library that requests outside information (from Google, StackOverflow, etc.)
and returns the information in a standardized text format. This API should also
be able to get documentation and specifications, such as an API specification,
library list, or platform documentation.

We will use [Google's Programmable Search Engine](https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/about/), 
in conjunction with their [Custom Search API](https://developers.google.com/custom-search/v1/introduction), 
to find specific information and tech lists. We will use the [StackExchange API](https://api.stackexchange.com/), 
to get information from StackOverflow. We will use [Wikipedia's API](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/API:Main_page),
to get overviews of technologies and platforms. To scrape websites, we will use
[Colly](https://go-colly.org/), a batteries-included web scraping framework for
Go.

The role of AI in this component is to take the information requested from the 
APIs and process it into a standardized format for the correct purpose. We will
be using OpenAI's [gpt-3.5-turbo](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-3-5) to
extract the relevant information from the API responses and return it in JSON.

Request Format:
```json
{
  "query": <query: string>,
  "type": <type: string> - "documentation" | "libraries" | "api-specification" | "overview" | "other"
}
```

Example Requests:
```json
{
  "query": "What is the documentation for the Python requests library?",
  "type": "documentation"
}
```
```json
{
  "query": "What are some libraries in Go for websockets?",
  "type": "libraries"
}
```

Response Format:
```json
{
  "response": <response: string>,
  "type": <type: string> - "documentation" | "libraries" | "api-specification" | "overview" | "other"
}
```

### Context Engine
Language models are limited by their context. The Context Engine will store task-specific dynamic context for different tasks. 

Example: If the Debugging API is trying to fix a bug and uses the Query API to get documentation, the Context Engine will store the context of the bug and the documentation that was requested, as well as excerpts from relevant files. The language model will then use this context to fix the bug.

### Interface
A CLI tool that collects requirements from the developer in a conversational 
manner and then generates a project from those requirements. The tool will call
the Query API to help the developer choose the correct technologies and APIs, 
and call the rest of the APIs to generate the project.

### Requirements API
A library that processes a conversation with the developer about requirements and 
generates a YAML file that can be used to generate a project.

Response Format:
```yaml
name: <project name>
mission: <project mission>
requirements:
  - <requirement 1>
    - <requirement 1.1>
    - <requirement 1.2>
    - ...
  - <requirement 2>
  - <requirement 3>
  - ...
```

### Outline API
A library that takes in a YAML file of requirements and generates a YAML project 
outline. The outline will be a list of files and directories that will be 
generated by the project. OpenAI [gpt-3.5-turbo](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-3-5) 
will be used to generate and revise the outline. 
Each file and directory will have a description that will be generated by
OpenAI [gpt-3.5-turbo](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-3-5) which contains the
requirements that the file or directory will fulfill.

Response Format:
```yaml
language: <programming language>
objects:
  - directory: <directory name>
    - directory: <directory name>
      - ...
    - file: <file name>
      - requirement: <requirement>
      - requirement: <requirement>
      - ...
    - file: <file name>
      - requirement: <requirement>
      - requirement: <requirement>
      - ...
    - ...
  - directory: <directory name>
    - ...
  - ...
```

### Dependency API
A library that takes in a YAML file of requirements and uses the Query API to
find the dependencies for the project as well as their documentation.

Response Format:
```yaml
language: <programming language>
dependencies:
  - <dependency 1>
    - name: <dependency name>
    - documentation: <dependency documentation>
    - ...
  - <dependency 2>
    - name: <dependency name>
    - documentation: <dependency documentation>
rest-apis:
  - <rest-api 1>
    - name: <rest-api name>
    - documentation: <rest-api documentation>
    - specifcation: <rest-api specification>
    - ...
  - <rest-api 2>
    - name: <rest-api name>
    - documentation: <rest-api documentation>
    - ...
```

### Code API
A library that takes in requirements that a file or directory will fulfill and
generates the code needed to fulfill those requirements. The Code API will 
generate the tests first, then the code to pass the tests. The Code API will
use dependency documentation to generate the code.

The code API can also Refactor the code to make it more readable and less 
repetitive. The code API will write clear _useful_ comments to explain the code.

Process:
* Generate test stubs with documenting comments
* Generate tests
* Generate code stubs with documenting comments
* Generate code to pass tests
* Refactor code
* Repeat

### Debugging API
AIs don't make bug-free code just like humans. The Debugging API will be used to
run tests and linters on the generated code, fixing any bugs that are found with
AI.
